
# 01_01_21

I've been working on two problems - nesting and complex elements.

## Nesting

I'm considering removing the ability to "nest" elements.
Instead, true "nesting" only occurs when a component instance is used in another component.
This would look something like the following:

```
component Button {
  elements
    container: shape
    label: text

  style label
    parent: @container
}
```

In the above example, we have a component called `Button` that has two elements - a shape element called `container` and a text element called `label`.
These two elements are, by default, siblings.
But a `style` block is used to assign the `container` element as the parent for `label`.
This effectively "nests" `label` inside of `containter`.
While it's certainly not as readable, it offers one significant advantage in that the nesting of elements within a component is often a stylistic choice rather than a modelling choice.
There are many scenarios in which the same visual element needs to be visually anchored to different elements in different states.
This means that nesting is primarily a visual concern, and is not always inherently tied to the content model.

All that being said, it's not as readable as the following:

```
component Button {
  elements
    container: shape
      label: text
}
```

## Complex Elements

A "complex element" is a clumsy term (actual term TBD) to refer to a higher level abstraction than the element nodes that currently exist in Matry.
To give some context, everything in Matry is a component.
A component is made up of one or more element nodes.
There are currently four types of elements: boundary, shape, text, and image.
Everything in Matry is built off of one of these three core types.

This can technically work, but it becomes unreasonably difficult when attempting to build more complex UI like tables or nested lists.
I'm beginning to think that two additional complex elements will allow designers more convenience, even though I'd prefer not to complicate the language.

I'm considering adding a `list` and `grid` element.
These are both complex in the sense that they are themselves a group of elements.
This introduces a bit of conceptual ambiguity, since "a group of elements" is a component, and I'd prefer not to have any built-in components in the language.
On the other hand, these two concepts require complex logic that would be difficult to simulate with the current elements.

One example of complex logic is `n` style selection.
Consider a table with alternating gray and white rows.
The underlying logic is that the odd rows have one fill color, and the even rows have another.
Without some kind of declarative iteration, I don't think it would be possible to express such a relationship in Matry.











