# Language Support

I'm watching [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BD-I3f0aTbs&t=809s) where Anna Herlihy discusses a solution created within MongoDB for a "language to language" transpilation system. It has a very similar set of requirements that I have for Matry:

1. It must accept an arbitrary number of input languages
2. It must generate an arbitrary number of output languages
3. It must support distributed development
4. It must be a linear-time development cost (i.e. no N-squared transpiler support)
5. It must be web-friendly (aka javascript)

The fourth requirement is what peaked my interest in this talk, as it's the problem I'm running into when I'm imagining support for Matry.
In Matry, the core language can be extended with platform-specific dialects.
Each dialect necessarily produces a different "bundle".
This output bundle is an intermediate representation, which can then be transpiled into any number of outputs.

The issue is that as the number of both dialects and transpilers grow, you end up with a combinatorial explosion of possible integrations.
This would be far too complex and burdensome for language developers.

An alternative I had in mind was to support "official" dialects that had very specific bundle formats.
Matry might then have an official dialect for Web, iOS UIKit, iOS Swift UI, Android, etc.
That way, dialect creators could create separate dialects, and as long as it resolves to one of the official bundle formats, it won't introduce a burden on transpiler developers.
